Okay, so another way that we can extend
this example is maybe we'll have a server
and the server is gonna have
a WebSocket connection.
And then we're gonna have like,
remember in the 90s,
when all of the webpages had the really
cool like, visitor counter at the bottom.
So we'll make one of those.
That'll be fun.
Okay, so to do that, we can just
put together a quick little server.
So I'm gonna require a package
called WebSocket stream to do that,
we'll also require the HTTP module and
set up a little server.
So we'll create server req,
res, our server isn't really
gonna need to do anything special aside
from web sockets, aside from serving
up some static assets, so I'm gonna use
a package called ecstatic to do that.
You can pass it a directory and
it will just serve up the briefing in
that directory, pretty straightforward.
You also might do (_dirname + ' /public')
that way you can run
the script from any location.
So we need to listen on the port.
And then we're just gonna let
ecstatic handle the rest.
We could have custom routes in here
either with a router or just checking
some properties with some kind of if else
statement, but this should do the trick.
Okay, so now to set up that web socket
connection, what we're gonna do is,
so you do wsock.createServer.
You pass in your http server.
And then you pass in a function.
Inside of this function,
you have a thing called a duplex stream.
I'm not gonna get a whole lot into that,
cuz that's its own quite
lengthy workshop in itself.
But you can do, for
example, this is how we're gonna
communicate with the other end.
So it's a bidirectional
communication system, but
we're only gonna push data at the clients.
Because guess books are only a single way.
So we need a variable that's gonna be
the count since is the number of times
people have visited our webpage.
And the first time somebody
logs onto the page,
we should send the current
count down the wire.
So we can do streamed.right, count,
and then maybe plus a new one.
And every time somebody visits,
this WebSocket connection will be loaded.
So we can also use that
to increment the count.
Right, because every time
someone loads the page,
their browser will establish
a WebSocket connection.
So that means that we can
increment the counter.
But the problem is, every time someone
visits the page we need to send that
information out to everyone so
we can see the counter update live.
Which will be fun.
So to do that we need to keep track
of all of the clients streams.
So I'll make an array to track
that called streams, and
we can push the new stream
into the streams array.
But then every time we get a new user,
instead of just writing that to
the current stream, we actually need
to write that to all of the streams.
So I'm gonna do streams.forEach.
I'll just do s.
And then we can write that message
out to everybody who's connected.
Then finally, we need to have a way of
removing stream from our array
when someone disconnects.
So there's a package I'm gonna use for
that called end of stream,
that's really handy for that sort of stuff
cuz there's a bunch of end of streams,
node js streams API, there's kind
of a lot of complexity for that.
So end of stream and
then on end of the stream,
we can just calculate the index
into that streams array.
We could also use an object with IDs but
this is fine for, I think what we need
index of the current stream and
then we can call splice to get rid of it.
All right, so how this works
is we're gonna have a counter
that's gonna be initialized at zero.
We're not gonna save it out to disk or
anything.
So every time we restart the server,
our counter will restart.
That's fine for now.
We have a websocket connection.
So anytime a client connects
this callback fires.
And inside of that function,
we have access to the stream and
we're gonna be pushing
data down that connection.
So the first thing that we do,
is we add that duplex stream
to an array called streams.
We increment our counter, and
then we push out the new counts to
everyone who's still connected.
And then to clean up
WebSockets that are no longer connected,
we can do this piece of code right here.
So now if I run our server,
it's listening on port 5000.
Because we are now providing
the server we're gonna need to
run some commands separately.
So we can go into here, so
instead of running budo, we can run
another one called watchify on our front
end code, I think it's called yo.js, yep.
And we can tell it to write
out to public/bundle.js.
And some helpful debugging flags,
might also have a script called builds and
that'll build something that's
more suitable for production.
So, maybe we wanna pipe it through
a minifier and pipe that through gzip and
then save the result out to bundle.js.gz,
for example,
so it's just something we could do to
run that one we would do npm run build,
to run the development version now,
we would just do npm run dev.
We still have to run the server
separately from this.
So I'll do npm run dev now.
So now every time we edit our file yo.js
or any of the files that it depends on
then our bundle code will
be updated automatically.
So we get all the code that we're
gonna need in the front end.
Okay, so
the final piece is we need a bit of html.
This is what I usually do for that.
You may have already
seen this a few times.
You can have more if you like but
the system is gonna take care of it.
I'll cover in a little bit
how we can actually generate
HTML on the server side to kind of
upgrade an existing page of content
to something that's gonna be dynamic.
This is sometimes called
universal rendering or isomorphic.
People use that word to describe
this kinda thing sometimes.
Okay, so the final thing we need to
do is update the front end code.
So that we're gonna be listening for
events that come down that WebSocket pipe.
There's a lot of ways to do this.
Here's one of those ways.
It's maybe not the best way for
a real site because we're gonna be using
the stream API in the browser,
which is kind of big, but whatever.
It's pretty easy.
Whoops, should be WebSocket stream, we can
get a handle to the WebSocket connection.
How that looks something like this,
where you do ws:// in the URL.
It just so happens that this string
right here local host 5000 is
the same as doing location.host because
we're in the browser after all.
And we need to take in every
piece from the stream and
update the state accordingly.
So I'm just gonna pipe into a couple
of different modules to split input
on new lines and then to sort of consume
the stream, we can see much more
about all of how to do that kinda thing
on the stream sock that I gave recently.
Okay, so here we're gonna get
every element in this function.
So we're gonna get rows back and
these rows are actually,
it's not an object stream, they are lines.
So we're gonna convert those
buffers to strings and
then turn them back into numbers.
So because we're writing,
if you remember from our server code,
we're printing out
a number with a new line.
So, we can convert that number
from a string back into a number and
we can maybe emit an event.
So the event is gonna be called
increment-n, so I guess instead of
Instead of using n as with
the set interval thing,
that'll be how we're gonna
count the number of visitors.
So, I could even rename it, so
that it's not called n anymore,
it's called visitors.
Okay, so I think that that's every place,
except for right here.
So now there's gonna be
the visitor count in the h1 tag.
Finally, what we need to
do is update our reducer so
that instead of n it's called visitors.
Okay, so maybe this will work.
So, whoops,
I didn't have a module installed.
The problem with making stuff up on
the fly is you use all these modules that
you didn't expect to be using.
Whoops.
So now I'm gonna run the server.
And I guess I already have
something running on port 5000.
All right, let me kill that.
Okay, here we go.
The server is running.
The browser looks good.
So if I refresh it, whoops,
right, we're no longer running on the budo
port we're running on port 5000, ws
is not defined,
let's just fix that bug really quick.
So it's on yo.js, line five, right?
That should be called wsock, not ws.
So I save it and
then watchify is gonna automatically
recompile which it did right here.
I think so.
Let's just make sure if I save it again,
yeah, so it's recompiling automatically.
So this is another trick.
It's not actually reloading the page,
because Chrome is very
aggressively caching.
So I'm gonna Ctrl+Shift+R.
There we go.
So I was doing everything fine,
but Chrome was being difficult,
so that's really good.
We see one, that visitor count started out
at something else I'm gonna now update.
I'm gonna load the page in another window.
And hey, we see 2 now, we see one
that's kind of a silly bug, but right,
so everybody updates, I guess I'm emitting
an increment event, not a set event.
So I need to go into the reducer now and
actually fix this because I
only see the updated version.
When you think it's only gonna
ever increment it's not gonna
be set to a value.
So why don't we go ahead and fix that.
So that's gonna be something
that happens in the reducer.
All right, increment visitors
doesn't even accept any values.
So shouldn't be called
increment visitors at all.
It should be called set visitors.
And then we should just set it
to the number that we emit.
Okay.
It's going back into the source code.
Increments should be set,
that can remain the same.
Okay.
Now if I reload with Ctrl+Shift+R,
I think you might have to have
the debugger console open to do that.
Okay, and
then open the debugger console there.
Control+Shift+R.
Okay, cool.
Now I think everything is
running the latest version.
Just about close enough.
That's weird.
Anyways, there's some sort of silly little
bug in here but it basically works.
Get our existing code that like cycles
through the numbers still works correctly.
And we've got some separation
between our reducer logic and
our events, our events that come
from a WebSocket connection and
our events that are sort
of internally generated.
So.
>> Do you wanna take like five minutes and
like sort out the bug and
then push the code?
>> Sure.
Yeah, so I'll push the code right now and
all of you can poke around with it and
maybe you can find the bug before I do.
>> Is there some way you would start
writing tests for what you just wrote?
>> Some way that you could
start out writing tests.
>> What is the preferred place
you start writing tests?
>> So what I would usually do is,
if you're going to write tests,
probably the best way to do it in this
sort of application is start with
the parts that are relatively easy to
test, like I would say the reducer
is probably the easiest part to start
testing if you're gonna do that.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Did I not?
Thought I did.
Got a lot of extra false.
>> Nevermind,
[INAUDIBLE] get something changed.
>> Okay.
Yeah.
So yeah, I would probably start here
cuz it just takes an event emitter and
an object is inputs.
So you don't really have
to do anything fancy.
You could even test this completely
in node because there's no
dom specific code in here.
You don't even have to test
it in a browser necessarily.
For other pieces, you probably have
to refactor them a bit more to test.
Cuz there's events and
there's rendering, so
the rendering would have to be split
out into its own piece probably,
before you could really have
a good shot at testing it.
So just the kinds of things
that you need to refactor.
Okay, let's see what's
wrong with this code now.
I see what it is.
Okay, this is very simple.
I forgot to update the state
by emitting an update event.
So it was just using the last value.
So see if I update that code
now shows to be running, and
make sure that it's reloaded.
I don't know why that is.
Okay, nevermind, it still has this bug.
>> Well, the initial state is zero, right?
So don't you have to admit?
The initial state is zero but
then when you connect to the WebSocket
you should get a message from the server
right away that has the most up
to date version of the account.
>> That's not somehow, for
some reason, not firing.
>> Yeah, it's kinda a little
bit odd cuz it's set and
then we get vacation right away.
I could print out what we're
getting back from the socket.
That might help.
>> See it's not firing right away.
>> Well, I'm also not seeing
that message which is odd,
you could say caching problem,
there we go.
It could have just been a caching
problem all along again.
Okay, so.
Okay, so that time it didn't work.
Let's see what's up with it.
Right, so we haven't gotten
any data back from the server.
It looks like sometimes it's not
getting the first little chunk,
maybe the WebSocket connection
is buffering it for some reason.
Or it could be,
there's like some connection limit we're
hitting in the browser is also possible.
It seems to work pretty reliably.
No, there we go.
I'll just print out the number
of connections that we have.
Just to make sure that all three
of those are actually connected.
Okay, zero.
Actually put that right there.
Okay, one connection, two connections.
Three connections.
Four, well now it's working.
Five.
>> It could have been just a-
>> There we go, when I reloaded.
>> Yeah, that one's not connecting for
some reason.
>> Yeah, this looks like more
of like a browser quirk.
Like Chrome isn't
reestablishing the connection.
But, I think we get the basic
idea of how it works.
But anyways, if you wanna poke around,
let me push that one fix.
Get rid of that debugging code though.
Emit update event.
Okay, so that code is in there.